DOCSP-45190: Bulk Write (#116)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/write/bulk-write.txt

.. _ruby-bulk-write:

=====================
Bulk Write Operations
=====================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: insert, update, replace, code example, multiple changes

Overview
--------

> This guide shows you how to use the {+driver-short+} to perform a bulk
> write operation that makes multiple changes to your data in a single
> database call.

Reviewer: Since most of the other standardized pages follow the pattern: "In this guide, you can learn...", I think we should start this the same way
```suggestion
In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to perform a bulk
write operation that makes multiple changes to your data in a single
database call.
```

Consider a situation that requires you to insert documents, update

> documents, and delete documents for the same task. If you use
> the individual write methods to perform each type of operation, each write
> accesses the database separately. You can use a bulk write operation to

Reviewer: S: Simplify and clarify that this page is offering an alternative to doing it this way

```suggestion
documents, and delete documents for the same task. If you use
the individual write methods, each write operation
accesses the database separately. Instead, you can use a bulk write operation to
```

filter.

The following example creates an ``update_many`` hash:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.rb
   :start-after: start-bulk-update-many
   :end-before: end-bulk-update-many
   :language: ruby
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

Replace Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A replace operation removes all fields and values of a specified document and
replaces them with new fields and values that you specify. To perform a
replace operation, create a ``replace_one`` hash and pass the following
arguments:

- Query filter that specifies the criteria used to match documents in your collection
- Replacement document that specifies the new fields and values to insert

The following example creates a ``replace_one`` hash:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.rb
   :start-after: start-bulk-replace-one
   :end-before: end-bulk-replace-one
   :language: ruby
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To replace multiple documents, you must create a
``replace_one`` hash for each document.

Delete Operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To delete a document, create a ``delete_one`` hash and pass a
query filter specifying the document you want to delete. The

> ``delete_one`` operation provides instructions to delete
> only *the first* document that matches your query filter.

Reviewer: The way this is worded makes it seem like there are separate instructions provided to delete only the first one document. 
```suggestion
``delete_one`` operation deletes
only *the first* document that matches your query filter.
```

The following example creates a ``delete_one`` hash:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.rb
   :start-after: start-bulk-delete-one
   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-one
   :language: ruby
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

To delete multiple documents, create a ``delete_many`` hash and pass a

> query filter specifying the document you want to delete. The
> ``delete_many`` operation provides instructions to remove *all* documents that
> match your query filter.

Reviewer: Same as above
```suggestion
query filter specifying the document you want to delete. The
``delete_many`` operation removes *all* documents that
match your query filter.
```

The following example creates a ``delete_many`` hash:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.rb
   :start-after: start-bulk-delete-many
   :end-before: end-bulk-delete-many
   :language: ruby
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. _ruby-bulkwrite-method:

Perform the Bulk Operation
--------------------------

After you define a hash for each operation you want to perform,
pass a list of these objects to the ``bulk_write`` method.
By default, the method runs the operations in the order
specified by the list of hashes.

The following example performs multiple write operations by using the
``bulk_write`` method:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/bulk-write.rb
   :start-after: start-bulk-write-mixed
   :end-before: end-bulk-write-mixed
   :language: ruby
   :copyable:

>    :dedent:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :dedent:
   :emphasize-lines: 9-10
   
```
